Version Control Tool
Version Control Tool is a tool which is used to keep track of projects related files and directories

2 types of version control tool
1. Distributed version control tool
2. Centralised version control tool

Difference between distributed and Centralised version control tool (GIT vs SVN or CVS)
Git is a distributed version control tool. The whole repo will be in local repo if I want to go to the previous version of a code I can get from local workspace itself.
SVN is a centralised version control tool. Only the latest version of code will be there in local workspce
If I required previous version of code then I need to checkout from central repo.

Git has many advance features like reset, fetch, stash
Incase of SVN we dont have direct commands for all these 

example for distributed version control tool is Git, bitbucket, Gitlab
example for centralised version control tool is svn and cvs

GIT :- Git is a version control tool which is used to keep track of project related files and directories.

Git Architecture :-
it consist of 3 stages 
1. Workspace  :- It is a place where we edit projects related files.
2. Stagging area :- It is an intermediate area where we save the changes 
3. Git repo or git local repo :- Here versions of files will be tracked. After executing git commit command
files will be moved to local repo 

git init :- used to create or initialize git repo 
syntx :- git init
git cred
Devopsdemo2025
$@ndeep@2025

Assignment 10-11-2025

Create account in Github
Create a repository
Delete repository
Create personal access token (settings- Developer settings - Personal Access Token --> Tokens(Classsic)
--> Generate New Token --> Generate New Token(Classsic)-->Enter Token Name 
--> set expiration to No Expiration -> select all scops -->Click on Generate Token)

Git Personal access tokens (classic) --> 


Git clone --> It is used to copy central repo or remote repo to the local workspace for the firsttime
syntax :- git clone url

git config --globle user.name "mention name"
It is used to configure the username 


git config --globle user.email "mention mailId"
It is used to configure the mailid of user

git status --> It is used to check wether the files are in workspace or staging area or local repo 
syntax :- git status

git add--> It is used to move the files from workspace to the staging area 
syntax --> git add filename --> It will move specific file to the staging area.

git add . --> It will move all the modified files to the staging area

git commit  --> It is use to move the files from staging area to the local git repo. It is used to save or commit the changes to the local repo.
syntax :- git commit -m "commit message"

git log --> It is used to check the history of the repo
git log -3 --> It will display history of the last 3 commit
git log filename -->It will display history of files (commits of that file)

assignment 
create repo and push all shellscript